There were a few factors that created the need at Bethel for a more structured training program.
One of those factors included the regular change over in personnel.
The brothers have to be more versatile in their assignments. They may have to do tasks.
They previously weren't trained on.
Printing equipment became more technologically advanced.
Our building systems became more complicated.
Computer systems were now starting to be used to control virtually everything.
I feel like Bethel has definitely always been good about training, but especially now,
I think everyone sees the need to continue investing in the brothers and sisters that are currently at Bethel.
I don't think it's possible for someone to know less about the traits than I did when I started.
I remember my first reaction when I was invited to help in the electrical was fear.
So when I received my assignment, I found out that it involved running the heavy equipment.
So I called my parents. I was really excited about it.
I said, Mom and Dad, I guess what I get to do? And Dad says, okay, son, will.
Did you tell them that you don't know how to drive?
It was decided to pull a group of highly experienced, highly skilled brothers to concentrate on developing and teaching
repeatable, consistent classes that could bring people skill levels up to what was needed.
We teach well over 100 different classes in 12 major categories.
Here at Bethel, I've probably been a part of over 30 different classes.
So it's been a variety depending on the needs at the time of the assignment.
I would estimate that I've taken about 15 or 20 different courses from safety and training
over the course of my 13 years in learning a trade.
I've become certified and at least these seven different license requirements.
We teach people technical skills, but that's not the sole purpose of the training.
If you aren't skilled in safety, you can't be skilled in your trade and vice versa.
The objective in all of our safety courses is to get them to view safety the same way Jehovah views it as a reflection of their spirituality.
So training and safety is essential.
So our goal is to take them into the classroom, give them some time to consider the theoretical,
and then we take them out where there's a lab setup and we have them do some tests on it.
Typically they will tell us that they've been able to learn more in a week than what they have learned in a year of trade school.
We've done over 60,000 instances of training.
And so now receiving this training, it provides an area or an aspect in which I can give my 100% to Jehovah.
You see it in their eyes are just so happy that they now have maybe a new skill or a new understanding that they can use to benefit Jehovah.
I love the fact that I came into Bethel with virtually no experience.
And not only did I receive a trade that I could use to carry out a work that glorifies Jehovah,
but I was trained well enough that I can share it with others and they can be trained too.
Helping someone else to go from that feeling of not knowing anything to feeling productive and feeling like they're contributing is a real joy for me.
And they can take what they learn wherever they go.
The confidence that people leave with once they've received that investment,
it's confidence that they can carry out whatever assignment Jehovah has given them,
and the confidence that Jehovah is going to train them for whatever's being asked of them.
I think if younger brothers and sisters are trying to learn a skill so that they can come to Bethel, that's commendable.
But more importantly a spirituality, let Jehovah finish your training.
In regard to training, we're really only getting started.
The training that we are getting in this system of things by Jehovah,
and especially related to safety, is absolutely going to be vital in the new world.
I can imagine the idea of being able to use some of the things I've learned
to figure out how we can use the natural resources in a way without using them up.
We know that we serve a God who is known as the Grand Instructor.
So the things that we're teaching and training right now,
it can only expand in the future.
And as long as you let him train you, you're going to be all right.